Guide to the AFS source tree

WINNT	   - Windows-specific UI, glue and such.
afs        - routines which make up the kernel- and userlevel- cachemanager
afsd       - the afsd process which parses config files, sets up the cache, 
             and forks off subprocess to start each of the libafs 
             "kernel threads" 
afsmonitor - afs monitoring tool
afsweb     - authenticated AFS access via Apache. requires minor porting for 
	     newer Apache versions.
audit      - afs event auditing support library
auth       - afsconf suite (CellServDB/UserList/ThisCell) and token interface,
	     outdated copyauth program, setkey utility for adding a key
	     to a server KeyFile (as a key)
bozo	   - bos suite
bubasics   - backup related rpc interface definitions.
bucoord    - backup coordinator and support library.
budb       - backup database server (buserver).
butc       - backup tape coordinator, and read_tape restoral client.
butm       - backup tape manager library
bu_utils   - fms(estimate tape capacity and file mark sizes) (not useful
             for tape drives with compression)
cmd        - cmd library, routines to parse cmd line arguments
             used by all command line utilities
comerr     - com_err library, error table routines
config     - build system OS-specific configuration
dauth      - dlog - get a krb ticket for use with the AFS/DFS translator
             dpass - also part of the AFS/DFS migration kit
des        - des library
dir        - afs directory handling library (client and server, internal format)
export     - from the README:
        EXPORT is an aix3.1 kernel extension whose sole purpose in
        life is to provide access to kernel symbols that were mistakenly
        (or purposefully) omitted from the kernel exports list.
finale     - last part of the source to build: 
	     translate_et - translates error codes to descriptive messages
fsint      - fileserver rpc interface definitions
fsprobe    - fileserver probe facility for information collection
ftpd43+    - insecure afs aware ftpd. 
gtx        - graphics library for monitoring clients
inetd      - insecure afs aware inetd.
kauth      - Kerberos suite including server, admin client, password 
	     changing and validating clients, token-getting and 
	     token-and-ticket-getting authentication clients, nfs
	     authentication exporter and server database reconstructor
libacl     - acl library, routines for manipulation of ACLs
libadmin   - AFS administration API
libafs     - directory where build system actually builds kernel modules.
libafsauthent - afsauthent library. part of a simplified set of libraries
	     for AFS-aware utilties. This and libafsrpc provide complete
	     functionality.
libafsrpc  - afsrpc library. Provides basic Rx functionality for AFS-aware
	     programs which don't need to do authentication
libuafs    - userlevel cache manager build directory
log        - programs to show and forget tokens (and optionally forget tokens 
	     and tickets) and test program to create an AFS token
login      - afs aware login replacement, and optional replacement which
	     gets kerberos tickets
lwp        - lightweight process library
ntp        - out of date bundled NTP implementation
null       - empty archive library
pam        - pluggable authentication modules for afs authentication.
pinstall   - "portable" install command
procmgmt   - "portable" process management library.
ptserver   - the protection database server and clients.
rcp        - insecure afs aware rcp.
rlogind    - insecure afs aware.
rsh        - insecure afs aware rsh.
rx         - rx rpc library.
rxdebug    - debugging tool for rx.
rxgen      - rxgen program. generates AFS RPC stubs from .xg files.
rxkad      - kerberos security module for rx.
rxstat     - rx statistics package
scout      - monitoring tool for afs fileservers.
sgistuff   - SGI authentication plugin for graphical login
sys        - local and remote system call interfaces. basic PAG-creation 
	     and remote system call handling for NFS translator
tbutc      - pthread version of butc.
tests      - test suite
tsm41      - tivoli storage manager support for the backup system.
tviced     - pthread version of the fileserver
ubik       - ubik replicated database library.
update     - upserver/upclient for maintaining server software from a system
	     control machine
usd        - userspace device input/output library.
uss        - uss tool for managing users.
util       - swiss army knife library.
venus      - various cachemanager related utilities
vfsck      - fsck for vice partitions on non-namei fileservers.
viced      - fileserver.
vlserver   - volume location server
vol        - volume library for managing volumes on-disk.
volser     - volume server package. includes volserver and vos client.
xstat      - extended statistics clients for cachemanagers and fileservers
xinstall   - unused more modern install program
tools      - contributed configuration/maintenance tools
man        - man pages
include    - build-time include file install area; may be used in automake time
cf         - autoconf config files
afsinstall - leftovers from IBM AFS including installation notes and helper
	     scripts
